# ESL Roadmap

This document functions as the proposed plan of action for ESL development.  It
avoids the use of the term "milestone" for its similarity to "millstone," but
generally lays out a path in time with both nearer and further targets.  As
always with the arrow of time, the further the target, the less assured its
success.

## Documentation and planning

This is where I flesh out the ESL documentation and sketch an approximate
roadmap showing where the project should go (this document).  This will include
creating a rough taxonomy of the "toy problems"/"games" that ESL examples will
cover, as well as perhaps suggested approaches to solving/playing them.

## Initial experiments

My hope is that the very first experiments will be easy to appreciate visually
so that I can share them on YouTube and/or Twitter.  This will reinforce the
progressive experimentation process (via self-fulfilling prophecy).

## Further experiments

Subsequent experiments will attempt to engage further with the ESL community,
assuming one will exist (once again, self-fulfilling prophecy--at any rate, the
ESL community will at least consist of myself and any friends/family I can force
to engage, or strangers that I pay to engage).  By engagement, I mean
incorporating suggestions from Twitter polls, e.g., or YouTube comments.  At
some point it should be possible to create ESL content worth "streaming," and
that will add another layer of content to the onion.  Dare we imagine that ESL
models could "watch" such streamers?  Sure, dare away!  It's fun.

## Critical mass

At some point, unless development is abandoned, I expect ESL to reach a
"critical mass" moment at which external interest merits creating a system to
handle pull requests, etc.  In other words, this would be the point at which
ESL becomes a large-scale collaborative project (but, of course, merely one of
any number of forks).  I am assuming that I will act as the "top-level arbiter"
for a little while, but I will try to be aware of people around me who would do
a better job of it.  That way, I can easily name a "successor" at any time and
transfer control to that person when it's convenient for me.  üêá

## Retirement

At this point, I hang up my keyboard and never touch a line of C# again.  Just
kidding!  I keep working, but perhaps in different forms.  Either way, *I'm*
no longer in control of the project, so what I do doesn't matter for the purpose
of this document.
